[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Like the other day I
was walking at my home
in California, and I looked over
the fence and there were these
exquisite--
the whole fence was covered with
these beautiful blue flowers.
And I was in ecstasy.
They were radiantly
bright and blue.
I didn't have my glasses on.
I didn't know what kind
of flowers they were,
but they were just
absolutely beautiful.
And I was just in delight.
And I went to my neighbor with--
on whose estate I
live, and I said,
there are just these absolutely
beautiful blue flowers.
And then later in
the afternoon, we
started to go outside
for something else.
I said, oh, let me show
you these blue flowers.
And I came up and there weren't
any blue flowers, because they
were morning glories.
And those of you that
know about morning glories
know that they're only
glorious in the morning.
And at first I felt confused,
and angry, and upset,
and embarrassed, and everything.
I said, I could have sworn
there were blue flowers here.
And then he said, You
mean the morning glories?
And then the word
morning glory went in,
and I thought, ah, that's
what morning glory means.
Ah, what do you know?
And I relaxed.
Faith is understanding that
they are morning glories.
Faith is understanding
that as long as there
are any clingings in you
at all, that you are going
to lose the spiritual
material aspects
of spiritual experience,
which is understanding,
bliss, rapture,
feeling of intimacy.
Anything that is an experience
connected with spirituality
is going to come and go.
To the extent that you
have based your faith
on experience--
this is a really far out edge--
you are bound to have a hard
road, because you're going
to constantly be flickering.
And you're going to be afraid of
the shifts of your experience.
The minute you recognize
that faith concerns something
that lies behind experience,
that is just being,
not the experience of
being, but just being.
That when it turns dull
and it all seems empty
and there's nobody around,
it's much more of awesome.
And then it opens
up and it's awesome.
And you don't demand of yourself
that you always be wise,
that you always be
clear, and you always
feel like you're
connected to God.
That you realize that all these
experiences are just the way
the mind is playing in
the universe of form.
And that when you're feeling
that intimacy, and that warmth,
and that devotional,
delicious quality,
if you will go in deeper to
find the place behind all
that stuff, then you will
find that when you're
in the depressed, cut off, empty
thing, you can sit with that
and find the place to rest.
It's not an experience
of negative or positive.
It's just mm.
And then pretty soon, the mm
and the mm are the same mm.
And then the ah and the
ugh are just little things.
They're the morning glories
opening and closing.
Remember the story of
the man, the farmer?
And one day his horse ran away.
And his neighbor said to
him, oh, that's too bad.
And the farmer said, who knows?
And the next day
the horse came back,
and it had attracted
a wild horse.
So now he had two horses.
And the neighbor came
and said, How wonderful!
And the farmer said, who knows?
And the next day, his young son
decided to ride the wild horse.
And he was riding the wild
horse, and he fell off
and he broke his leg.
And the neighbor came
and said, that's too bad.
And he said, who knows?
At the time there was a war,
and the army came through,
conscripting young men.
But they didn't take his son,
because he had a broken leg.
And the neighbors
said, how fortunate.
And he said, who knows?
That's the place, the
who knows, who knows.
And usually when you
have gotten attached
to the spiritual, material
experiences of bliss,
and of intimacy, and of
aliveness of spirit, when
it turns dead, and cold, and
nothing, you get so freaked,
and so reactive, and
feeling like you fell out
of grace that you are then
dealing with all your reactions
to it, not with
the thing itself,
just with the reactions to it.
With, oh, I wasn't worthy.
I didn't deserve it.
Oh, see, God figured me out.
I'm a fraud, you know?
And now because I've gone in
and out of it so many times,
now my faith is strong.
Not my faith that I
will feel the experience
of being close to God, but
just the faith of that it is.
[MUSIC PLAYING]